There are lots of other NoSQL databases.
And they come out fairly frequently.
Today we're gonna be focusing
on one called MongoDB,
which if you're a JavaScript developer,
probably sounds fairly familiar to you.
But there are plenty of others to look
at like Cassandra, Couchbase, Rethink,
there's a myriad of other ones.
This one's just very popular with
specifically JavaScript developers,
but in general with a lot of companies.
So let's get into talking about MongoDB.
I think it's pretty safe to say that
MongoDB is one of the most popular
databases today in the world.
It's been a pretty reliable custodian
of data for over a decade now.
And it works really well with very small
workloads like when I'm just doing little
one off projects myself, I very frequently
choose MongoDB just because it's really
easy to get up and running with.
The one thing I'm gonna say is if you go
look through MongoDB history, they've had
a couple of rough patches of like there's
a time where they were dropping data for
a while, they had some rough patches,
I'll just put it that way.
I'm just gonna say that they're past
that they haven't had a real problem in
a long time.
So I feel very confident in
recommending to all of you.
MongoDB is a very good use or
as good database for
whatever workload you're
gonna throw at it.
So let's go ahead and just dive into it.
So hopefully you have
Docker Desktop up and running now.
You can tell if it's up and
running, here in my Mac,
you can see I had this
little whale up here.
You can see here it says
Docker Desktop is running.
Hopefully that's something
you see right now.
If you do, then great.
If not, then you'll have to get it up and
running.
On Windows,
I think it's in your system tray.
Yeah, it'll be in your
system tray as well.
And then we're gonna be running
some commands that I have
here just listed out for you.
This should work in PowerShell.
I didn't actually try it in PowerShell,
but this should work in PowerShell.
If not, you can use WSL and
get into bash and the shell.
This will definitely work through
bash in WSL, which stands for
Windows subsystem for Linux.
If you just search for WSL Windows, it'll
show you how to get that up and running.
So I'm gonna copy this Docker run.
And I'm gonna open my terminal here.
And I'm just gonna paste that in there.
Docker run--name test-mongo,
you can call it whatever you want,
I just call it test mongo
because I'm not creative.
-dit, that's for detach interactive and
tty that's what the dit stands for.
-p this this is gonna be what port
you're gonna be opening from your Docker
container running on your
computer to your local computer.
So we're opening the port 27017, outside.
So that's gonna be the ones gonna
be available my host computer, and
it's gonna be opening 27017 which
is the default port for Mongo,
interior on the inside, all right?
So you can kinda map those ports
if you want them to be different.
I don't, so that's why I'm saying that.
The --rm just means if,
when I'm done with it just remove
cleanup automatically afterwards.
And then the name of the container
that will be pulling
off of Docker Hub is Mongo.
And then the :4.4.1 we're
pulling the version 4.4.1.
So if you run this,
you should just get something like this.
This is the hash of what's
running in side of docker.
So if I type Docker PS right now,
you can see I have one container
running which is this one you
can see these numbers match up.
You can see it's
forwarding this port here.
And you can see the name
of this is test Mongo.
So now we have one container
running on our computer.
It's running MongoDB.
It's available for us to access.
I don't actually have the Mongo
client installed on my computer, but
the container does.
So we can kind of cheat and
use the containers own Mongo
to query against itself.
So if you go back here to my notes at
this Docker exact command right here.
And I'm gonna be connecting to
my test Mongo container, and
I'm gonna be running the Mongo command.
And now you can see here
I am inside of Mongo.
So I'm now actually able
to query against Mongo.
Now we're inside of MongoDB.
And now we're able to start writing
quit all database clients, or
all databases have these kind of clients,
we can get into the command line and
start doing queries.
So let's look at one of these.
If I do show DBs like that, you can see
here I have three different databases.
One called admin,
one called configure and called local.
This is what Mongo creates for you by
default without you having to do anything.
So Mongo has two kind
of key concepts here.
One is called a database and
one is called a collection.
And if you're familiar with something
like my sequel or Postgres or
something like that, you'll be
familiar to databases and tables.
So a table and a collection are roughly
analogous across MongoDB and
like a relational database.
So the first thing is we wanna
create our own database.
A database is going to be
a group of collections.
So let's say you had an app that was
running like a pet adoption, which is what
we're gonna be doing, I always talk
about pet adoption, because I like dogs.
That's that's really the crux
of that issue right there.
We're gonna be using a database called
adoption because we're gonna have multiple
different collections
inside of this database.
So it's a group of collections.
You'll find frequently your application
will only ever use one database,
that's okay.
If you have a bigger application
has a bunch of, this is users, and
this is movies, and this is TV shows and
you need to separate those out,
you could have multiple databases which
would then have multiple collections.
It's all about organizing
your data in a useful way.
But the idea is that you wanna
have like data together.
So I'm gonna say use adoption, like that.
That's gonna be the name of my database
because it's gonna be a pet adoption
database.
And you can see here now I've
switched to DB adoption.
That didn't exist before, but again,
Mongo is dynamic in nature, so
it just rolls with it, rise like
you want something called adoption?
Here you go.
I don't actually have something like that,
but you can have it now.
So let's talk about collections.
Collections are just basically like
a grab bag of documents, right?
A document is gonna be like a record or
if you're thinking about a spreadsheet,
it's gonna be like a row, right?
So one individual entry into your
database is going to be a document and
the table of those rows is
going to be your collection.
So yeah, it's just a grab bag of objects,
you can think of it as
basically JavaScript's objects.
In fact, literally, the query language for
MongoDB is just JavaScript.
So if you know JavaScript, you already
know how to do querying in MongoDB.
So for example,
I can just type math.now like that.
That's date.now, not math.now,
you can see,
this is actually just JavaScript.
So you can actually just run
JavaScript stuff in here.
So math.max, that would work, right?
Now, we'll actually just be copying and
pasting some JavaScript in here
to generate some records for us.
Again, I'm gonna be using the terms,
the correct term to use here is documents.
That's what each of these are.
But I will use the term documents and
records kind of interchangeably,
just kinda fixed in my brain.
Those terms that mean the same thing.
It's one entry in your collection.
So let's make a database of pets, and
let's insert a awesome record into that.
So I'm gonna say DB,
that's gonna represent adoption, right?
So that's kind of like the object
that represents adoption right now.
And I'm gonna say .pets,
that's gonna be the name of my
collection that I'm about to create.
And I'm going to put an insert one,
like that.
And this is a function that you just
give it a JavaScript object and
it's gonna turn that into a record or
a document in our database here.
So it's gonna have a name and
this name is gonna be Luna because
it's obviously gonna be my dog.
It's gonna be a type of dog.
Its breed is going to be Havanese and
she is eight years old.
So that should look pretty familiar to if
you've ever written JavaScript before.
It's because it's
literally just JavaScript.
Okay?
So if I hit Enter that now,
you can see, it acknowledged,
which means that the query was successful.
And it inserted a new ID and
that object has an idea of blocks.
So every documents that
you insert into MongoDB,
it just automatically gives it an ID.
It has its own kind of internal ID system.
Whereas with other databases you
have to create your own IDs,
MongoDB automatically has one for you.
Let's take a look at that record then.
So first thing we'd say db.pets.count.
And you can see now this
has one record in it.
And if I say show DBs now, you'll notice
that I do have an adoption database
because it created that for
me when I inserted that first document.
So now it's like okay,
now this is real and
it goes and
actually creates all that stuff for you.
Another thing that's gonna be helpful for
you is you can also say db.pets.help.
And this is actually going to show
you all of the commands you can run.
So you can do find, find one, get db,
get indexes, all that kind of stuff.
I frequently forget all this stuff and
it's nice to just be able to
kind of see that at a glance.
I think that also works for
db, we just check it does.
So you can see all the things that you can
do with the database as well in addition
to the collection.
We can do things like DB like stats
well I think that works, right?
So this is, it has one collection,
one object inside of it,
the average side of it.
There's a bunch of stuff you can
do kind of administrative stuff.
Yeah.
>> I keep hearing the same record
as does the same as document?
>> It is yeah.
Those terms are not
necessarily interchangeable.
But l also can't get away from saying
because I just kind of the word that
comes to mind.
But it's one entry in a database
can be considered a record.
It can be considered a document, a row.
You'll hear it called all
those different things.
The correct term here is document.